"Reliability in Internet of Things: Current
Status and Future Perspectives" by Liudong Xing.

Reliability is one of the main challenges that must be
addressed to enable this revolutionized transformation. Based on
the layered IoT architecture, this article first identifies reliability
challenges posed by specific enabling technologies of each layer.

Challenging research problems and opportunities are then discussed in relation to current underexplored behaviors and future
new aspects of evolving IoT system complexity and dynamics.

. Reliability models and solutions
at four layers (perception, communication, support, and application) are reflected and classified.

1. Introduction

 In other
words, reliability is one of the crucial requirements for adoption of the IoT in critical applications [3]–[10]. Malfunctions
of supporting IoT devices (e.g., wearable medical devices),
failing to capture critical data, any network outage, data corruption, or loss during transmission or storage may cause
catastrophic effects, such as mission failure, financial loss,
and harm to people and environments

<The paper analyses relaiblilty aspect and address issues arising form each suggested solution right form the perceptoin llayer, comm. layer, support layer to user in Application Layer >

Reliability design is concerned with
choosing proper components, redundancies, and system configurations to ensure that a system can meet its reliability
requirements under its operating environment for a certain time
period. 

II. IOT ARCHITECTURE AND RELIABILITY CHALLENGES

Due to limited resources (power, computation, storage, and
communication capacity), IoT devices especially those operating in harsh and unattended environments are prone to failures.
They often communicate through wireless links that are also
error prone due to noises, signal attenuations, or channel
fading. 

Advances in various IoT enabling technologies are making
the IoT systems more powerful and intelligent. On the other
hand, the cooperation and interaction among the system components become more complicated, creating new and unknown
dependencies/

complexities in iot data collectoin
 During different phases, the system may need to
perform different tasks or functions involving different subsets
of system resources or components. These components may
undergo different environment conditions and stress levels,
thus have different failure rates or mechanisms during different
phases [97]. For example, in a smart home, its power generation system uses solar energy and standard electricity [91].
Due to the changing brightness of the sun, the solar panels function with different production performance with time.
During some time (e.g., afternoon), energy from the solar panels is sufficient to supply the electrical panel of the smart
home (even with extra electricity being stored or sold to the
public grid); during other time (e.g., evening), the solar panels can stop functioning and electricity stored and/or from
the public grid has to be used to supply the smart home.

The daily cycle of this person consists of
two phases: 1) inactive night sleep and 2) active daytime
activities. During the night phase, only the physiological
information (e.g., blood pressure and heart rates) is measured
by biosensors; during the daytime phase, both the physiological and motion data are monitored by biosensors and
motion sensors, respectively. In both examples during different
phases, different subsets of system components (e.g., sensors)
contribute to the system function, requiring a distinct reliability model to describe the system failure behavior at each
phase.

III. IOT PERCEPTION TECHNOLOGIES RELIABILITY
At the bottom layer of the IoT, smart, low power, and
microsensor devices are typically deployed.
So the reliability also diversifies
A. Component-Level Reliability :Reliabilty at component level chanegs with chaneg in environemntal setup.It was revealed that the cold standby
technique is more reliable than the hot one.Considering the crucial role of the sink node (base station) in WSNs and the need for fast recovery in the case of
the failure of the primary sink node, the hot standby sparing
design was considered in [108] to achieve a highly reliable
sink node subsystem. 

B. End-to-End Path-Level Reliability:
One important application
of the path-level reliability evaluation is to verify and compare the reliability performance of different routing protocols.

C. System-Level Reliability:

Reliability based on a group fo ssyetems working together. WSNs may undergo
common-cause failures (CCFs), where multiple sensors fail
at the same time due to a shared cause, such as extreme
conditions, design deficiency, and humidity.

IV. IOT COMMUNICATION AND TRANSPORT RELIABILITY

The CL is responsible for providing a ubiquitous access
and networking environment for the PL.
As we know, In the case of a failure of a node or a link on the selected
path, a reliable routing protocol is responsible for detecting the occurrence of the failure and finding an alternative
path to accomplish the desired information transmission.

A. Multipath Routing
For failure resilient WSNs, multipath routing protocols have
been designed, which use multiple alternative paths between
the source and the destination to achieve high reliability 
The multiple paths may be link disjoint, node disjoint, or
overlapped/correlated. They may be used in parallel, or in
a standby style 

B. Reliability-Aware Single-Path Routing
In addition to multipath routing, there also exist works on
designing reliability into the single-path routing algorithms.

C. Retransmission-Based Mechanisms
Based on the ARQ protocol, the retransmission-based mechanism uses ACK and timeout to provide reliable data transmissions if a condition like, say, the number of retransmissions
exceeds a predetermined maximum value.

V. IOT SUPPORT TECHNOLOGIES RELIABILITY

The SL is mainly responsible for storing and processing
mass data in the IoT

A. Cloud Fault-Tolerance Techniques

Examples include but not limited to:
1) Retrying: a failed service task is retried on the same
resource;
2) Alternate Resource: a failed service task is retried on
another resource; 
3))) replication
4) Checkpointing


B. Cloud Data Reliability Under Cyberattacks

Multiple VMs configured alike on the same cloud present a security chalenneg to the cloud securitty. In particular, the CRA may be
launched by malicious attackers, where VMs running the malware are co-located with a target user’s VMs and a side
channel can then be established to enable the data theft or
corruption.

C. Cloud-RAID Reliability
The traditional RAID architecture has
seven levels with level 0 implementing the data stripping technique and no redundancy, level 1 implementing the mirroring
redundancy (duplicated data stripes), and levels 2–6 implementing different parity ECC techniques (e.g., level 2 uses
the Hamming code, and level 5 uses the block-level distributed parity code) 

D. SAN Reliability
An SAN is a high-speed FC fabric capable of connecting any server and any storage element, allowing
multiple storage resources to be accessed by multiple hosts
simultaneously 

E. Edge and Fog Computing Reliability
As variants and extensions of the conventional cloud
computing, edge computing and fog computing are gaining popularity for IoT applications due to their advantages in improving the response time and saving badwidth.

VI. IOT APPLICATIONS AND SERVICES RELIABILITY

A. Smart Home Reliability

B. Body Sensor Network Reliability
Due to the safety-critical applications of the BSN (e.g.,
healthcare and military), reliability modeling and design of
BSNs have received good research attentions.

C. Smart Grid Reliability
As another important IoT application, smart grids aim to
enable timely fault detection and self-healing without the intervention of technicians, thus ensuring a more reliable supply and more resilient to disasterss.

VII. PERSECTIVE FOR FUTURE DEVELOPMENT

Conclusion
Despite the rich and fast-growing body of works on IoT, the
reliability research is still in its early stage. As IoT systems
and applications evolve, additional new aspects of system complexity and dynamics may arise, making the existing reliability
models and solutions inadequate or inaccurate. New and efficient reliability models and tools are expected for capturing
the new features and behaviors, leading to more effective
and accurate IoT system reliability analysis, optimization, and
design. The ultimate goal is to transform our society toward
being ICE.


need research in cross-domain, cross-layer reliability research,
cascading failres-Driven by factors such as dynamic changes in
network workloads caused by a component failure (e.g., the
failure of a sensor node in WSNs [237] and the failure of
a transmission line in smart grids [67]), a chain reaction or
domino effect takes place causing extensive damage and even
outage of the entire network. 
