"An Adaptive Energy-Saving Routing Algorithm for Mobile Wireless Sensor Networks"

BY:
Dr. Sami Alwakeel, Agung Prasetijo and Najla Alnabhan

peulude:
Our proposed routing algorithm adapts dynamically to network node's energy-level. 
For data transport to the network base-station (network sink), it selects only nodes that balance the mobile WSN energy saving distribution.

1. INTRODUCTION

The main functionality of
WSNs is to gather any scalar, audio, video or still image
information from an area surrounding the sensors and deliver
it to a base-station (sink). As wireless sensors are mostly
limited in size, weight, as well as in cost, the resources of the
sensors are also limited including: energy, processing power,
and communication functionality.conserving energy is very much important for prolonging the WSNs’ life span.

Energy saving can be achieved by selecting
routing path through nodes with high energy level so that it
increases the probability for message delivery to the WSN
sinks (base-station). 

nodes employed in ad-hoc WSNs
do not have definite routes that will direct the message
efficiently to the sink.our research is to develop an optimal routing algorithm
for WSNs. The proposed MSN Adaptive Energy Saving
Algorithm (MSN-AESA) is a solution to the energy-saving
problem of mobile WSNs.

Section II
presents the related works, section III discusses the design of
our proposed routing algorithm, and section IV, we show
simulation results. Finally, the research contribution are
summarized in section V. 

2. RESEARCH IN WSN PROTOCOLS:
In packet-switching protocol layer view,
efficient energy consumption can be applied at any of protocol
layers: physical layer, data-link, network layer, transport layer
and application layer.

physical placement and
mobility of sensor nodes also affect the overall quality of
service (QoS) as well as energy consumed [1,3]. Sparse sensor
networks require longer radio coverage, consuming more
energy, while dense sensor networks consume less power due
to smaller radio transmission coverage but may have
performance deterioration due to network message collision

Transport schemes for delivering data also directly impact
the energy use. Continuous data delivery needs large energy
dissipation compared to even-driven data actions.

For
transport layer, transport reliability can be achieved by
exchanging packet control messages i.e. providing end-to-end
or hop-by-hop acknowledgment and packet recovery [1].
Acknowledgments of packet handover are important to
eliminate multiple-packet retransmissions that consumes more
energy.

3. MSN-AESA SYSTEM DECISION AND OPERATION (proposed design)

With continuous mobility of network sensor nodes in
habitat tracking and other WSN applications, development of
efficient energy routing scheme is essential. MSN-AESA
addresses such needs of mobile sensor network while allowing
long nodes life time. The design of the algorithm and its
theory of operation is discussed in what follow:
1. If a node Ni receives a new message Mj, then Ni
checks for its energy and its memory. If both
resources are available, node Ni schedules the
message Mj for a rebroadcast after time Tk. If either
the node’s energy or node’s memory is not available,
node Ni discards the message Mj and records the
rejection. Tk is set as a function of node and message
parameters as to be explained later.
2. During the waiting for rebroadcast, Ni listens for other
messages to arrive.
3. If message Mj+1 is received and it is a duplicate
message queued in memory (scheduled to be
broadcast), node Ni checks that message Mj+1 does
not exceed the maximum allowable number of
duplicates of Dj ( i.e D ≤ Dj). If this is satisfied, node
Ni then reschedules the message Mj for a different
period Tk+1. If not, node Ni rejects the message Mj+1
and records the dropping
4. If an ACK message AMj is received from a basestation (BS) during the waiting period, node Ni drops
the related message Mj from its memory buffer. 

4. RESULTS AND PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS:

Based on the CEERA design [5], a simulation model was
developed to evaluate the performance of our algorithm. The
model was built using the NS-2 Network Simulator. Various
performance measures such as: throughput, number of
1st International Conference on Electrical and Information Technologies ICEIT’2015 105
retransmission (duplication) of messages, message delay,
delay jitter, and congestion level were investigated in this
study.

we also measure the time it
takes for the first-node to die (FND) and half of the network
nodes to die (HND). The performance of MSN-AESA will
directly be compared with the simple-flooding scheme. 

MSN-AESA outperformed
the simple-flooding scheme by around 10% more throughput
in every simulation experiment with various values of network
node number and message arrival rate. This can be achieved,
provided that higher values are set for Dmax, memory size,
and maximum number of duplicates allowed.

<Dmax must be set around
250 meters or more for the algorithm to achieve that 10%
gain.
>
It reveals that a high density network decreases both
schemes. However, MSN-AESA gives more stability to the
throughput. 

5. CONCLUSIONS

In our proposed algorithm, MSN-AESA contributes to a
10% gain in throughput. To get such additional throughput,
transmission/reception range must be set for a minimum of
250 meters, and a maximum number of duplicated message
and memory size are limited to a minimum of 10 messages
and eight messages respectively. The lifespan of the nodes is
extended by almost twofold for the FND and 75% more HND
lifetimes. The algorithm also perfectly suppresses congestion
to 0%. Furthermore, in contrast to flooding scheme, MSNAESA algorithm works very well in the dense sensor network
as the results suggest that there is no significant degradation
for MSN-AESA performance measures.