A Multiple Classifiers Broadcast Protocol for
VANET
Dr. Sami S. Alwakeel, Dr. Hesham A. Altwaijry
and
Agung B. Prasetijo


In VANET broadcast protocols, vehicles must decide the received messages are to be rebroadcast or not. Several attributes such as sender-to-receiver distance, sender-receiver speed difference, number of
neighboring vehicles, as well as vehicle’s movement direction are
important measures to take the broadcast decision.

. Our research results justify that
the performance of our combined multiple-classifiers
outperformed a single-classifier scheme.

most of the solutions have used mostly only a few attributes (whether local or global), such as the use of senderto-receiver distance, number of message duplicates received, or even only employing probability to reduce the number of nodes/vehicles that rebroadcast messages to mitigate the broadcast-storm problem.

In reality, considering many attributes in the broadcast decision mechanism may lead to a more efficient broadcast scheme. For example, a vehicle having a greater distance from the sender vehicle is more potential to rebroadcast messages than that of having a smaller distance.Similarly:speed

"Single calssifier based broadcast roauting approach"

Pfrobability based":
Basic broadcast techniques in VANETs follow either a 1-persistence or a p-persistence scheme. The 1-persistence scheme has the advantages of low
complexity and high penetration rate, but creates massive redundancy. The p-persistence scheme may reduce message redundancy but may increase in total latency and degraded penetration rate. 

Distance/location-based approach uses relative position between sending and receiving nodes in determining broadcast nodes.

A mobility based approach is when the speed and movement direction are used as a way for nodes being grouped or segmented.

In message duplicate approach, number of message duplicates received is used to select the broadcast nodes. More duplicates heard by a node means lower contribution for a node to have similar message rebroadcasted.

The experiment:
Our experiment is set up on a 1,500 x 1,500 meter-square
flat topology area with realistic mobility is generated by
VanetMobiSim mobility generator [17]. The VanetMobiSim
generates realistic vehicular mobility traces that are, in turn,
used by the NS-2 network simulator [18] for its wireless
network simulation. The NS-2 simulates the MAC 802.11
protocol. The radio range for each vehicle is set to 250 meters
CSMA single channel. In DSRC [19], this channel often refers
to CCH channel or channel 178. 

There are five vehicle's attributes that are considered in this
research, and they are:
1. Distance between sending and receiving vehicles –
Greater distances contribute to a wider coverage. Therefore,
vehicles having greater distances must have a higher chance for
message rebroadcast.
2. Number of neighboring vehicles (vehicle density) –
Having more neighboring vehicles means the vehicles should
have smaller chances for rebroadcast to suppress message
redundancy. Therefore, a higher number of neighboring
vehicles means a lower probability for rebroadcast.
3. Number of similar message heard during waiting time
– More duplicates heard by the vehicles may reveal a small
need for the vehicles to rebroadcast. Therefore, having a large
number of duplicates means lower probability for rebroadcast.
4. Speed differential between sending and receiving
vehicles – Without considering vehicle’s direction, a large
difference in speed may contribute to the rapid dissemination
of information. The larger the speed differential is, the more
chance the vehicle has to rebroadcast.
5. Directional conformity between sending and receiving
vehicles – Specific applications demand directional
conformity, such as alerts from an ambulance must go forward.
However, other applications might need the message to go
backward, such as for accident alerts.

CONCLUSION:

A notable reachability performance has been shown by the
combined-classifiers using the distributivity function that
reaches the same value of flooding’s average reachability.
Compared to the ECS scheme, the multiple-classifier scheme
with ‘distributivity’ function contributes to a 2.5% increase in
reachability (in average). The unanimity combiner outperforms
all other schemes in terms of saved-rebroadcast. It contributes
to an increase of 38.9% savings on rebroadcast compared to
that of ECS measured at 175 vehicle density.

However, employing many
classifiers must be accompanied by a powerful processor to
reduce processing delay.