"A survey on application of machine learning for Internet of Things" by
Laizhong Cui, Shu Yang, Fei Chen, Zhong Ming, Nan Lu, Jing Qin

Article  in  International Journal of Machine Learning and Cybernetics published online on 11 June 2018

PRELUDE:
IoT
systems are producing massive data and thus more and more IoT applications and services are emerging.

Many researches study how to utilize machine learning to solve networking problems, including
routing, traffic engineering, resource allocation, and security. Recently, there has been a rising trend of employing machine
learning to improve IoT applications and provide IoT services such as traffic engineering, network management, security,
Internet traffic classification, and quality of service optimization. This survey paper focuses on providing an overview of the
application of machine learning in the domain of IoT.

1. Introduction
Internet of Things (IoT) is becoming a new pervasive and
ubiquitous network paradigm offering distributed and transparent services.

As the popularity and widespread use of IoT, IoT applications are developed to provide more accurate and more fine-grained services to users. These IoT big data can be further processed and analyzed to provide intelligence for the IoT service providers and users.

the IoT data analytic procedures [6–8].
Over the past decade, the artificial intelligence (AI)
achieves a great success with the advances in computing technologies of cloud computing, graphics processing unit(GPU) computing, and other hardware enhancements [9]. Machine learning is the most representative
AI algorithm, which has been already applied in multiple
fields, such as computer vision, computer graphics, natural
language processing (NLP), speech recognition, decisionmaking, and intelligent control.

 machine learning can also bring a potential benefit to computer network. researches HAVE ALREADY studied how to utilize machine learning
to solve networking problems, including routing, traffic
engineering, resource allocation, and security [10–14].
Machine learning has been regarded as the key technology of autonomous smart/intelligent network management
and operation.


As a summary, the original contributions of this paper
are as follows:
• We illustrate the potential of machine learning for traffic profiling. The unsupervised solutions and supervised
solutions are presented detailedly.
• We make a summary on the IoT device identification with
machine learning, in terms of mobile phone identification
and general IoT device identification.
• We review IoT system security based on machine learning approaches, in terms of device security and network
security.
• We summarize typical IoT applications leveraging
machine learning, including personal health applications
and industrial applications.
• We investigate the edge computing and SDN in IoT using
machine learning, including edge computing infrastructure design and IoT network management.
• We also discuss the challenges and open issues on the
reviewed areas, including traffic profiling, IoT device
identification, security and edge computing, and SDN
via machine learning.

Section 2 introduces the progress about the application of
machine learning to traffic profiling. Section 2 discusses how
to use machine learning to identify IoT devices. Section 4
presents the security solutions of IoT systems by machine
learning. Section 5 presents edge computing infrastructures
based on machine learning. Section 6 describes how to use
SDN with machine learning to manage the IoT network. Section 7 summarizes the typical IoT applications with machine
learning. Finally, Sect. 8 concludes this paper.


USES OF ML for/IN iot
2. Traffic profiling
Traffic profiling refers to the fundamental task of characterizing, understanding the traffic patterns in communication
networks, including IP, wireless, mobile networks etc
For instance, among the benefits, detecting abnormal traffic specifically enhances the security of
the underlying networks, which have gained considerable
research efforts in recent years.
Supervised and unsupervised

3. IoT device identification
Device identification refers to a mechanism that predicts the
type of an internet-of-thing (IoT) device according to the
device’s characteristics
eg: 3.1 Mobile phone identification using kNN and SVM. the
time needed to identify a mobile phone is about 15 min

Understand the efforts of different machine learning
approaches  Another interesting problem relates to how
to choose machine learning algorithms. Researchers have
proposed a bunch of algorithms. How different algorithms
influence IoT device identification and how to define features input to the machine learning algorithms are yet to be
understood.

4. Providing Security
The researchers rightly pointed out how Security problems in IoT networks are more and more
important with the increasing number of attacks nowadays. The IoT networks are more vulnerable than traditional
1406 International Journal of Machine Learning and Cybernetics (2018) 9:1399–1417
1 3
network because of the characteristics of IoT devices and
communication protocols. For example, (1) IoT devices are
usually equipped with lower battery and micro-controller,
thus it is easy to be flooded; (2) IoT communicate with each
through Bluetooth, ZigBee, WIFI or GSM, which are more
vulnerable to attacks.

a. Device:the volume of the traffic,
the rate of service, the rate of losses, the length of packets
queue and time of user action to inquiry as indicators, to
unambiguously define the state of an element. ,and 
b. network security

challenges: ddos, security infreastructure, data acquisition

5. Edge computing with machine learning
Edge computing is an emerging computing paradigm which refers to a range of networks and devices at or near the user. For faster performance.

6. Software‑defined networking
with machine learning in IoT

Using Sofware to configure and route dcision 
SDN can play
an important role in the IoT world [62]. However, also due
to the complexity of IoT, the control plane needs machine
learning for better management of the networks.The Control Plane refers to the network architecture component that defines the traffic routing and network topology.

6.2 Intrusion detection:Using machine learning, the controller
can judge whether there is intrusion or not. LIMITATION:Overheads in control plane,DDOS.

7. IOT Applications
. The system first collects available user health
data, including health history, demographic features and
previous collected IoT data from medical or health sensors.
Then, with classification models like decision tree, logistic regression and LibSVM, the system makes predications
about the diseases. Each disease is related to some attributes
that need to be monitored. At last, a mathematical optimization model is used to recommend the best IoT solution or
wearable devices.  

Authors discussed research paper that innovated a system that can detect
the human presence using IoT devices, and do not rely on
devices, like cameras and motion detectors, that explicitly
detect human presence.

user activity recognition
mechanism based on phone accelerometers.

 proposed an agriculture system that can
monitor the environment conditions of vineyard, and predict the grape diseases in its early stages.the accuracy of the hidden markov model is 90.9%, which
greatly improve the accuracy of statistical methods.

8. Conclusion
Machine learning has a great potential to be the key technology for IoT. Machine learning trends to provide analytics
for the IoT applications. Despite the recent wave of success
of machine learning for networking, there is a scarcity of
machine learning literatures about its applications for IoT
services and systems, which this survey aims to address.
This paper is different from the previously published survey papers in terms of focus, scope, and breadth; we have
written this paper to emphasize the application of machine
learning for IoT and the coverage of recent advances. Due
to the versatility and evolving nature of IoT, it is impossible
to cover each and every application. However, this paper has
made an attempt to cover the major applications of machine
learning for IoT and the relevant techniques, including traffic
profiling, IoT device identification, security, edge computing
infrastructure, network management based on SDN, and typical IoT applications. We have presented a thorough study on
the recent researches about the application of machine learning for IoT, its technical progress, and application domains.
We have also presented concise research challenges and
open issues, which are critical to the application of machine
learning for IoT.