"A Bayesian-based Energy Aware Routing Algorithm for Mobile WSNs" 
BY:
Dr. Sami S. Alwakeel and Agung B. Prasetijo

Energy conservation is crucial in Wireless Sensor Networks (WSNs) for prolonging sensor node's life. 
This research attempts to gain benefits of Bayesian classifier through
development of a Bayesian Classifier-Based Energy Aware Routing algorithm (BBEAR) for mobile WSNs.

BBEAR algorithm incorporates several node attributes, including: remaining energy that the nodes have, distance to the sink, number of messages being queued, node's success rate, delay of the received message, as well as the number of message duplicates received by the node.

1. remaining energy. The node's remaining energy is the
most important. Having a lower energy level means that the
node must be more selective when forwarding its messages.
2. distance to the sink/destination. When the distance to
the sink is relatively short, the nodes have higher probability
to rebroadcast messages.
3. Number of messages queued in memory. If the number
of messages are high, the node's probability for rebroadcast is
also high.
4. number of duplicate message received. If the number
of message duplicates are high, the nodes will have lower
probabilities for rebroadcast, so this will minimize other
duplicates generated over the network.
5. message delay. If the messages delay time from the
instant its generated by the sender to moment it is received is
high, the nodes then has a higher like hood to re-broadcast
and to deliver the messages. This will result a reduction of the
overall total delay.
6. node's success rate. If the nodes have high success rate
to reach the sink, it deserves high probability for rebroadcast
messages.

It is shown that BBEAR
performs superior over flooding technique as it gives 15%
more message throughput and reduces message duplicates by
almost four times from 852.6% to only 215.5%. The
throughput performance of BBEAR is superior over all
simulated network densities over the range of 60 to 160 nodes.
Congestion has also been suppressed 28 folds, from 257.4% to
only 9.13%