"Performance, Reliability and Scalability for IoT" 

By:
Andriy Luntovskyy ad Larysa Globa

<Abstract>
There are a lot of apps and software platforms to IoT support.
However, a most important problem of QoS optimization, which
lays in Performance, Reliability and Scalability for IoT, is not yet
solved. The extended Internet of the future needs these solutions
based on the cooperation between fog and clouds with delegating
of the analytics blocks via agents, adaptive interfaces and
protocols.
The next problem is as follows: IoT can generate large arrays of
unmanaged, weakly-structured, and non-configured data of
various types, known as "Big Data".

Some advanced approaches for optimization of Performance,
Reliability and Scalability for IoT-solutions are offered within the
paper.

<1. Introduction>
<FIG 1>
As basic platforms clouds, fog and data mining are
used. The modern technologies are as follows: Blockchain,
Machine Learning, IoT, Robotics, 5G. They involve new
application fields, which require higher QoS, advanced
Performance, Reliability and Scalability.

<The further paper content was built as follows:
1. Motivation and the aims of the paper are established
(this Section I).
2. State-of-the-art approaches to performance optimization
and typical QoS requirements are discussed (Section II).
3. Advanced analytics placement options on example of
Cyber-PHY and robotics (cloud and fog based) are
offered. The approaches are aimed to increasing of
performance, reliability and scalability for IoTscenarios (Section III).
4. Big Data shortcomings for important IoT areas are
discussed (Section IV) as well as the solution
approaches (Section V) offered. These can be partially
ML based.
5. Finalising, conclusions have been done and outlook
provided (Section VI). >


<2. PERFORMANCE OPTIMIZATION. QOS PARAMETERS>
Modern networking uses widely management of QoSparameters aimed to Performance, Reliability and Scalability
optimization [1, 2]. So-called IoT is based nowadays on IPv6.
This brings more freedom in addressing of immense quantity of
available devices: sensors piconets, Embedded, Wearable,
Cyber-PHY, robots, intelligent stuff etc. Huge as well as
heterogeneous data volumes (approx. 100PB to 100EByte) are
acquired additionally causing Big Data shortcomings.

These methods are as follows [1, 2, 21]:
(1) Multi-threading.
(2) Replication.
(3) Caching on Client.
(4) n-tier and use of proxies and gateways (GW).
(5) highly-distributed Peer-2-Peer (P2P) as well as
(6) further empiric rules (refer Table I).
The small intelligent nodes in IoT-scenarios communicate
via energy-autarky gateways with the capable server part. The
considered approaches are able to increase the performance,
reliability and scalability in desktop applications and IoT both. arameters within an IoT system in detail.
Further performance optimization can be reached via the
analytics migration into the clouds. The cloud-centric systems
can discharge the energy-critical mobile nodes

<3. ANALYTIC PLACEMENT FOR THE PERFORMANCE AND
SCALABILITY>

<FIG 4>
The up-date highly-distributed apps (desktop as well as
mobile) are characterized via multi-layer horizontal and vertical
architecture. These layers can be as follows:
1. PHY world and hardware.
2. Software with interfaces (heterogeneous and adaptive).
3. Middleware components and web services.
4. Analytic blocks and mobile agents.
The layers and tiers are combined and balanced between
client, cloud and fog part considering the QoS parameters like
performance (throughput, response time), reliability (probability
of failure, availability) and scalability too. 

<for scalability(as follows)>
A. OPC UA
The OPC UA specification as well as the based framework
for IoT and Embedded is a multi-part specification and consists
of the following parts, layers and tiers as it was depicted in Fig.
5:
 Concepts, Security Model, Address Space Model
 Services, Information Model, Mappings
 Profiles, DA (Data Access), AC (Alarms and
Conditions), Prog (Programs), HA (Historical Access)
 Discovery, Aggregates, PubSub.
The following bus formats can be used:
 EDDL (Electronic Device Description Language)
 ISA Bus (Industry Standard Architecture)
 Profibus as well as further fieldbus formats.

B. ROS: The advantages of this OS are as the follows: fault-tolerance,
reduced development complexity, availability of the examples
on functionality and usage, documents and DB, video streams
with tutorials, navigation via way-point navigation and location
tracking [11  14]. The system is also configured to face
recognition and sample calibration (Fig. 6).

C. Advanced Architectures

<FIG 7>

The IoT and robotic applications can be classified into three
following groups (Fig. 7). Therefore, we are talking about
replaceable and customizable IoT and robotic algorithms in
various fields of application (industry, medicine,
communication and telecommunication, entertainment) which
can acquire, then process and retrieve voluminous heterogenic
Big Data in the given area [4  10].
They must be able to solve the problem of QoS optimization
(performance, scalability, reliability) as well as Big Data
shortcomings in better way due to intelligent distribution of the
Data Analytics:
(1) Conventional IoT and robots.
(2) Cloud-Centric IoT and robots.
(3) Distributed (Fog-Cloud-cooperating) robots.
Only the cloud-centric solution (2) and further distributed,
fog-cloud-cooperating solution (3) both are able to overcome the
discussed problems in full measure.

<4. BIG DATA>
Thus, the typical sampling, survey and accumulation models
in IoT-scenarios can lead to necessity of solving of Big Data
shortcomings. A typical data acquisition and evaluation model
is shown in Fig. 9. Mostly, the collected data are large
unstructured and unmanaged. 

< 5. MACHINE LEARNING: WHAT IS IT?>
The overcoming of myths and misconceptions is possible
due to use of Machine Learning (ML). The (cloud-based) ML
system enables artificial creation of knowledge from the
obtained voluminous experimental data in background mode.
An artificial system is learned from samples and examples and
can summarize them after the completion of the study and
evaluation (training) phase. The ML system recognizes
templates and trends in research data. Thus, the ML (cloud)
system can also evaluate data on representativeness and
compliance

<7. CONCLUSIONS AND OUTLOOK>
1. IoT-scenarios need nowadays the efficient access and
management models under considering of the QoS
parameters and low-energy-criteria.
2. Some classical as well as the advanced approaches to the
optimization of Performance, Reliability and Scalability for
IoT solutions were analysed.
3. The extended Internet of the future needs these solutions
based on the cooperation between fog and clouds with
efficient delegating of the analytics blocks via agents,
adaptive interfaces and protocols.
4. The given work is also dedicated to Big Data sources and
solutions in modern IoT issues. The best practices and case
studies on Big Data and ML were discussed. The given
papers deals with the both problems.
5. This work can be qualified as a work-in-progress. The
authors try to find new efficient method combinations to
overcome the above-mentioned problems.
6. The aspects of Security and Privacy in such potentially
dangerous IoT-scenarios need a special considering for
risks evaluation and cooperative intrusion detection with a
separated research.