The SURVEY paper titled "Energy and time efficient task offloading and resource allocation on the generic IoT-fog-cloud architecture"

By: Huaiying Sun, Huiqun Yu, Guisheng Fan, Liqiong Chen

Abstract:
With the exponential increase in the number of IoT devices and the amount of emitted data from these devices, it is expensive
and inefficient to offload all tasks to the remote data center.
Fog does not appear to replace cloud, they are complementary to
each other, cooperation between them is worth studying. This paper proposes a general IoT-fog-cloud architecture that fully
exploits the advantages of fog and cloud. Then, the energy and time efficient computation offloading and resource allocation
is formulated into the energy and time cost minimization problem. We then propose an ETCORA algorithm to solve the
problem, improving the energy consumption and completion time of application requests. Finally, extensive simulations are
carried out to verify that the proposed method indeed outperforms the other two methods in reducing energy consumption
and completion time of requests.

1. INTRODUCTION:

<FIG PAGE 4>
<Fog intro and overview>
Currently, a huge amount of data emitted by distributed
IoT devices are transferred to the centralized cloud for
processing before the results are returned back from the
cloud to data consumers, which are always located adjacent
to the original data sources. It is not efficient for some applications with rigid service
delivery deadlines such as virtual reality, augmented reality
and so on to be executed on remote cloud only. A promising
Peer-to-Peer Networking and Applications (2020) 13:548–563
/ Published online: 19 July 2019
approach is to adopt the decentralized processing of IoT
data. 
 IoT devices (e.g., gateways, sensors, or embedded systems) provide computational, storage, and networking
resources, which allow to transfer the execution of IoT applications to the edge of the network [7]. Thus, the approach
is described as fog computing (or edge computing)
Compared with
the remote data center, it has the advantage of shortening
application response time. Fog nodes are dispersed in geographic location and resource on them are limited compared
with cloud.

<The organization of this paper is as follows: Section 2
introduces the related work. Section 3 introduces the system
architecture and computation models. The following is the
problem formulation. Section 5 describes the ETCORA
algorithm, and the simulation evaluation is shown in
Section 6. The last one is the conclusion.>

3 System architecture and computing
models:
 a general architecture of IoT-fog-cloud.
The architecture has three layers. The first layer is the
infrastructure layer, which contains some IoT devices. The
second layer is the fog layer, including some fog servers
and controllers, which can be located at different geographic locations. The third layer is the cloud layer
comprising cloud servers.

The energy analysis
module of the IoT device determines whether the device
can serve offloaded tasks of other devices according to the
energy and time constraints. The basic module of controller is responsible for
information communication.

4 Problem formulation:
This paper is mainly to provide the optimal computation
offloading strategy S∗ and transmission power strategy P∗,

5 Energy and time efficient computation
offloading and resource allocation:<IMPORTANT SECTION, Conssits of ECTORA algorithm> 

<ALGORITHM ECTORA PAGE 9>
5.1 Computation offloading selection
The computation offloading selection is mainly to determine which task of the request needs to be offloaded to the
fog or cloud, satisfying the task dependence and the number
of tasks executed on fog layer as more as possible, making
the energy and time cost of each application request as less
as possible.If the local execution is larger, the task will be offloaded
to the fog layer. otherwise, further considering whether it is
possible to be offloaded to the cloud layer. If the execution
overhead of the task on the cloud layer is smaller, it will be
eventually offloaded to the cloud, otherwise it will stay on
the local device.


<IMP - The Algorithm page 8 >
5.2 Transmission power allocation:
The transmission power allocation is mainly to allocate
transmission power to the tasks of each request optimally,
minimizing the energy and time cost of task executed on
fog or cloud 

6 Performance simulation

<FIG page 13>
Due to lack of the realistic testbed, we evaluate the
effectiveness of the proposed method by iFogSim [25]
to simulate an IoT-fog-cloud environment (including 500
IoT nodes, 60 fog nodes, and 20 cloud server nodes).
iFogSim is an extension to the CloudSim framework [26],
which has been widely used to simulate different computing
modes<not so important>.

7 CONCLUSION:

<FIG PAGE 14>

We then propose the
ETCORA algorithm including 2 parts: computation offloading selection and transmission power allocation to solve
the problem.Results show
that our method indeed outperforms the other two methods in reducing energy consumption and completion time of
requests

Another two significant
factors are the security and reliability of services, because
they would also have direct impact on the performance of
the IoT applications.

 IoT-fog-cloud environment to extend the
practicability of it. If so, it will benefit many aspects of
our daily life such as the transportation, medical, industrial
automation, smart home and emergency response.