Scalability is another challenge to be addressed. Since, the number of devices being
connected is large in number, scalability must be considered while designing routing protocols and data storage mechanisms. Energy efciency must be also taken care, since IoT
devices have limited resources and battery power. Routing protocols designed for communication between IoT devices must take care of congestion, since number of devices must
be communicated are huge in number. Another interesting research area is exploring social
side of IoT. Although there are many surveys have been proposed in literature, our survey
is diferent from others, in the view of covering every aspects of IoT, such as, architecture,
protocols, security and privacy, scalability and energy efciency, etc., and describing the
most recent research works associated with them.


• Identifcation and Scalability: Overall scope of IoT is much larger than Internet of computers. As the number of objects being interconnected is huge in number, scalability
issues arise at diferent levels.
(a) Naming & addressing: As numbers of devices that are going to be connected are
huge in number, address space should be large enough to accommodate all the
devices.
(b) Data communication: A large number of devices are connected with high-level
of interconnection, so scalability arises for data communication.
(c) Information management: The data generated by the vast number of sensors is
enormous. Proper information extraction mechanisms must be used in order to
extract useful information from the data, and to store data.
(d) Service provisioning and management: Massive numbers of services are available
with IoT.

SCALABILITY:

Scalability is another major research challenges that has to be addressed because a large
number of devices are going to be connected to IoT network, it is said 20 million devices
will be connected to IoT network by 2020.Data generated by these devices are very large,
so the scalability issue must be considered while storing data, transmitting data and existing protocols for IoT must work even when size of the network keeps on increasing.

Nodes of IoT should be fault tolerant, i.e., the data stored with the node should not be
lost due to crash/disasters at that location. For ensuring fault tolerance replication mechanisms are used, but they can’t be directly applied in IoT context since devices are resource
constrained. Gonizzi et al. [105], developed a data dissemination scheme for replication of.
data in distributed manner by considering scalability. Here a node before trying to replicate
its data, checks the memory available with the nodes in routing table, if sufcient memory
is available, then only it forwards the data to that node.
To address the issue of scalability, most of the existing research on IoT adopts cloud
infrastructure. However, Zhang et  al. [106], mentioned that, directly connecting smart
objects with cloud is not a feasible solution because of the inherent limitations of cloud and
web services. The authors have observed that there is a need for higher layer of abstraction, called as Global Data Plane (GDP), based data-centric approach for IoT applications.
The main features of GDP include, single writer append only blog, location independent routing, overlay multicast, etc. 

concepts.
Venkatesh et al. [108], have provided a scalable application design for IoT applications,
which uses simpler and smaller functional units called, context engines, are used to perform statistical learning. The use of context engine helps to minimize the overhead and
improves scaling compared to the existing monolithic approaches. Jermyn et  al. [109],
addressed the scalability of M2M applications over next generation LTE (Long Term Evolution) mobile networks. Authors have studied the communication overhead created by
large number of objects over mobile networks and performed experimental analysis using
LTE simulation test bed for such a study.

o address the scalability issues.
Ray et al. [111], considered the issue of scalability and security in IoT systems and proposed a RFID security framework for IoT. Although RFID is widely used in many of the
IOT applications, scalability and privacy issues are grossly overlooked. So, the authors
have provided an identifcation technique for addressing the issue related to scalability and
security check handof technique to provide adequate security features. An et al. [112], provided a Content-based Filtering Discovery Protocol (CFDP) in which, publisher/subscriber
protocols is used for the service discovery mechanism.